Dear Colleagues and Friends from RG, Currently, many economic data indicate that due to the development of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus pandemic causing Covid-19 disease, many companies, enterprises suspend operations or entrepreneurs are closing their companies and service facilities in an increasing number of sectors and industries. Therefore, currently (April 2020) economic growth is slowing down in many countries. Current estimates show that in 2020, the global economy will probably slow down its growth by several percent. compared to the previous year. Therefore, it is necessary to permanently improve and increase the scale of anti-crisis socio-economic policy planned, developed and implemented both at the level of individual countries as well as within coordinated international activities. In some countries, pro-development, interventionist, anti-crisis programs have already been launched to save business entities from mass bankruptcy by introducing additional temporary tax breaks or exemptions, subsidies to employees' remuneration under fiscal policy. On the other hand, as part of monetary policy, central banks reduce interest rates, launch loans for commercial banks on preferential terms, buy lost loans from commercial banks and / or implement sovereign bond buy-back programs to maintain liquidity in the commercial and public financial system of the state. However, the question arises how many months of this type of high budget aid programs can be implemented? To what level can the budget deficit and public debt be increased as part of the implementation of this type of anti-crisis programs helping the economy, enterprises and citizens? To what level can the government allow inflation to rise as a result of this type of economic assistance programs? Can the current economic crisis in many countries turn into a crisis of public finances? If it is possible, what anti-crisis economic reform program should be currently planned and implemented in these countries to avoid a significant increase in the risk of potential loss of liquidity in the state's financial system? In connection with the above, one more question arises: Do you agree with the thesis that as part of limiting the scale of pandemic development through the use of forced home quarantine and forced suspension of economic activity in a significant part of branches and sectors of the economy, it is possible to run the above-mentioned government anti-crisis for many months at the same time programs to help the economy and not paying attention to financial costs, not paying attention to the growing scale of public debt of the public finance system? Therefore, the impact of the SARS-CoV-2 Coronavirus pandemic causing Covid-19 disease on the global economy is very large. The high probability of potential recession of the global economy and in many countries in 2020 is currently estimated. Well, in 2020 it is no longer trade wars that will be the main factor in the decline in international trade, international capital flows and other factors of production, international economic cooperation. In 2020, the main factor behind the decline in international trade, international capital flows and other production factors, international economic cooperation, etc. will be the development of the SARS-CoV-2 Coronavirus pandemic causing Covid-19. What do you think about my research thesis? Many current economic data already confirm the thesis that probably now (April 2020) in many countries an economic crisis begins, which may after a few months turn into a debt crisis of the state's financial system. If this situation occurs in many countries, then in 2020 the global economy will most likely slow down its growth by several percent. compared to the previous year. In connection with the above, other research questions arise: Can the currently beginning economic crisis in many countries turn into a crisis of public finances? If it is possible, what anti-crisis economic reform program should be currently planned and implemented in these countries to avoid a significant increase in the risk of potential loss of liquidity in the state's financial system? The issue of the impact of the development of the SARS-CoV-2 Coronavirus pandemic on national economies discussed above is developmental, dynamically developing, with every day more important data appear that may affect the specificity, nature and scale of the correlations analyzed.
Best wishes.
Dariusz Prokopowicz